docs: Announce core decision about JDK (#1763)
scala/scala-lang: _posts/2025-03-05-next-scala-lts-jdk.md.md

---
category: announcement
permalink: /news/next-scala-lts-jdk.html

> title: "JDK 17 will be the next JDK version used by Scala 3"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "JDK 17 will be the next minimum version required by Scala 3"
```

Reviewer: another possibility would be to flip it around: "Scala 3 will begin requiring JDK 17+" or "Future Scala 3 versions will require JDK 17+"

by: Tomasz Godzik, VirtusLab & Scala Core Team
---

> We recently asked for the community input about changing the JDK version used by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently asked for community input about changing the JDK version used by
```

the Scala 3 compiler. We wanted to thank everyone for their input and announce

> the decision to switch to JDK 17 starting with 3.8 minor and the next LTS which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the decision to switch to JDK 17 as the new minimum, starting with Scala 3.8 minor and the next LTS which
```

will mostly likely be Scala 3.9.

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps add something like: “This only concerns _future_ minor versions of Scala 3. In particular, the Scala 3.3 LTS line is unaffected by this change.“

Technically it's redundant to add but maybe it's worth being fully explicit, I don't know.

It could even continue to say, "Scala 3.3.x releases will continue for at least a year after the next LTS line begins," that kind of thing.

Author: Makes sense, it's better to be more explicit

Author: Added!

> This only concerns Scala 3, there are no plans to change Scala 2 JDK support and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This only concerns Scala 3. There are no plans to change Scala 2’s JDK support and
```

it will continue being built using JDK 8.

The related discussion can be found on the

> [Scala contributors forum](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/next-scala-3-lts-version-will-increase-minimum-required-jdk-version)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Scala contributors forum](https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/next-scala-3-lts-version-will-increase-minimum-required-jdk-version).
```

---

> category: announcement

Reviewer 2: Could you move this to the `blog` category?

We discussed these categories with Darja a few weeks ago, and we concluded that  `announcement` should only be used for release announcements. The Scala Highlights should be in `highlights` and every thing else should be in the blog category.

permalink: /news/next-scala-lts-jdk.html
title: "JDK 17 will be the next minimum version required by Scala 3"
by: Tomasz Godzik, VirtusLab & Scala Core Team
---

We recently asked for community input about changing the JDK version used by the
Scala 3 compiler. We wanted to thank everyone for their input and announce the
decision to switch to JDK 17 as the new minimum, starting with Scala 3.8 minor

> and the next LTS which will mostly likely be Scala 3.9.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and the subsequent new LTS which will mostly likely be Scala 3.9.
```
given we have release series called `Next` and `LTS`, using  them in a single sentence in a different meaning sounds off.

The discussion didn't uncover any compelling reason not to leave JDK 11 behind.

> 11 is now nearly as antiquated as 8, and moving from 11 to 17 is not normally a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
11 is now nearly as antiquated as 8, and moving from 11 to 17 is not normally considered a
```

difficult upgrade for users. 17 offers useful APIs and VM features. In the JVM
world, requiring 17+ is already a mainstream position and is becoming more so
with every passing month. Also, we increase Scala's minimum so rarely, we feel
we should take this chance to aid open-source maintainers by reducing the
testing and maintenance burden across the entire Scala 3 tooling and library
ecosystems as much as we reasonably can.

This change only concerns future minor versions of Scala 3. In particular, the
Scala 3.3 LTS line is unaffected by this change. Scala 3.3.x releases will

> continue for at least a year after the next LTS line begins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue for at least a year after the next LTS line begins.
```

> continue for at least a year after the next LTS line begins

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
continue for at least a year after the new LTS line begins.
```

> There are also no plans to change Scala 2’s JDK support and it will continue
> being built using JDK 8.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are no plans to change Scala 2’s JDK support.  It will continue
being built using JDK 8, as before.
```
